Add load balancing docs (#2559)
knative/docs: docs/serving/load-balancing/target-burst-capacity.md

---
title: "Configuring target burst capacity"
linkTitle: "Configuring target burst capacity"
weight: 50
type: "docs"
aliases:
    - /docs/serving/autoscaling/target-burst-capacity
---

_Target burst capacity_ determines the size of traffic burst a Knative application can handle without buffering.
If a traffic burst is too large for an application to handle without buffering, the activator will be placed in the request path to protect the revision and optimize request load balancing.

> The activator can also quickly spin up additional pods for capacity, and throttle how quickly requests are sent to pods.

Reviewer: It is not clear what pods can be spun up. If revision — then autoscaler does that, if activator pods then Kubernets HPA does that.

You can configure target burst capacity using the `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity` annotation key in `config-autoscaler` ConfigMap, as shown in the following example:

> * **Global key:** No global key.

Reviewer: there is a global value
`target-burst-capacity: "200"` in the config-autoscaling configmap.

* **Per-revision annotation key:** `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity`
* **Possible values:** float

> * **Default:** `70`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Default:** `200`
```

> **Note:** If the activator is in the path, it will fully load all replicas up to `containerConcurrency`. It currently applies target utilization only on revision level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If the activator is in the path, it might fully load some replicas up to `containerConcurrency`. It currently applies target utilization only on revision level.
```
This is partially true now:
1. If CC<=3 it is still true
2. if CC > 3 then it's round robin so more or less qual loading
4. if cc = 0 => then it's more or less equal loading.

Perhaps just remove the note.

> **Note:** If the activator is in the path, it will fully load all replicas up to `containerConcurrency`. It currently applies target utilization only on revision level.
> <!-- TODO: clarify what this note means-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** If the activator is in the path, it will fully load all replicas up to `containerConcurrency`. Target utilization of different revisions, even from the same Knative Service, are treated independently and as a result each revision's replicas will be scaled up and down independently.
```

**Example:**
{{< tabs name="targetBurstCapacity" default="Per Revision" >}}
{{% tab name="Per Revision" %}}
```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:

>   annotations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  name: s3
  namespace: default
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        autoscaling.knative.dev/minScale: "2"
        autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity: "70"
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> - If `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity` is set to `0`, the activator is only added to the request path during scale from zero scenarios, and ingress gateway load balancing will be applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity` is set to `0`, the activator is only added to the request path during scale from zero scenarios, and ingress load balancing will be applied.
```

>   **NOTE:** Ingress gateway load balancing requires additional configuration. For more information about load balancing using an ingress gateway, see the [Serving API](../../reference/serving-api.md) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **NOTE:** Ingress load balancing requires additional configuration. For more information about load balancing using an ingress gateway, see the [Serving API](../../reference/serving-api.md) documentation.
```

type: "docs"
aliases:
    - /docs/serving/autoscaling/target-burst-capacity
---

If a traffic burst is too large for an application to handle without buffering, the _activator_ service will be placed in the request path to protect the revision and optimize request load balancing.

_Target burst capacity_ is a [per-revision](../../serving/autoscaling/autoscaling-concepts.md) integer setting that determines the size of traffic burst a Knative application can handle without buffering.

Target burst capacity can also be configured globally by configuring the following settings together:

* Setting the targeted concurrency limits for the revision. For more information, see the documentation on [concurrency](../../serving/autoscaling/concurrency.md).
* Setting the target utilization parameters. For more information, see the documentation on [target utilization](../../serving/autoscaling/concurrency.md#target-utilization).
* Setting the target burst capacity per revision.

## Setting the target burst capacity per revision

* **Global key:** No global key.
* **Per-revision annotation key:** `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity`
* **Possible values:** float
* **Default:** `70`

> **Note:** If the activator is in the routing path, it will fully load all replicas up to `containerConcurrency`. It currently applies target utilization only on revision level.

Author: note: not sure what this means...

apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
  name: s3
  namespace: default
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        autoscaling.knative.dev/minScale: "2"
        autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity: "70"
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

- If `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity` is set to `0`, the activator is only added to the request path during scale from zero scenarios, and ingress gateway load balancing will be applied.

  **NOTE:** Ingress gateway load balancing requires additional configuration. For more information about load balancing using an ingress gateway, see the [Serving API](../../reference/serving-api.md) documentation.

>   

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion

```

>   

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion

```

Target burst capacity can be configured using a combination of the following parameters:

- Setting the targeted concurrency limits for the revision. See [concurrency](../../serving/autoscaling/concurrency).
- Setting the target utilization parameters. See [target utilization](../../serving/autoscaling/concurrency#target-utilization).
- Setting the target burst capacity. You can configure target burst capacity using the `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity` annotation key in the `config-autoscaler` ConfigMap. See [Setting the target burst capacity](#setting-the-target-burst-capacity).

## Setting the target burst capacity

- **Global key:** `target-burst-capacity`
- **Per-revision annotation key:** `autoscaling.knative.dev/targetBurstCapacity`
- **Possible values:** float (`0` means the Activator is only in path when scaled to 0, `-1` means the Activator is always in path)
- **Default:** `200`

**Example:**
{{< tabs name="targetBurstCapacity" default="Per Revision" >}}
{{% tab name="Per Revision" %}}
```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:

>   name: s3

Reviewer: may be "service-name" or something, rather than s3 :) I know it's my example, but for official docs we probably need a more descriptive name
